Title: Of Reading PaperDate: 2015-11-20 19:40Modified: 2015-11-20 21:50Tags: academic-researchCategory:Blog/EnglishSlug: of reading paperAuthor: JIN LinThis post is mainly focused on how to eliminate distraction through two levels of control: first at micro-level always focus on the goal and gradually build missing knowledge; at macro-level filter papers through a three-pass approach. #### Eliminate Distractions Since my sophomore year, I have been reading quite a lot of scientific papers either for research project or for course subject or even sometimes for personal interest. The biggest problem, which might be only second to *critical reading*, is always that how to efficiently grasp the information as desired with minimal distraction.  Based on my own experience, I will explain why **distraction**** in paper-reading is an issue and where it originates. I do not consider myself new in this business, but more practice still is required to streamline or standardize the process to boost the efficiency. Another words, make it a habit. >In short, distractions root in two reasons: lack of goal-oriented focus and lack of relevant knowledge.Here, by *goal-oriented focus*, I mean read the papers always with a goal in mind. What am I reading this for? Material? Instrument? Material supplier? Protocol? Origin of the research field? Data processing technique? etc. This is especially important when read across different papers to search for most suitable solutions in current lab. Even if sometimes we need to read the whole paper to understand what is beneath the solutions they took, our attention should still be on the section we are trying to investigate. All in all, the message is laser-focus on one objective in one pass. What's worse, because of the*lack of relevant knowledge*, our attention could be easily digressed by those new terminologies. Unless they are critical in understanding of the subject of interest, it is advisable not to *WiKi* them and get lost in a chain of unfamiliar words. Even if they are critical, jot them down and put them aside in a dedicated notebook first and continue with the target in mind. It is not about how much knowledge we can learn from the paper, rather it is about how the paper could solve our question we bring in when start reading it. Afterwards, the secret notebook is the church to convert those strangers into friends. Constantly visit the church. We can gradually build our knowledge of our field by this way layer by layer, dot by dot.  Connect the dots, hold the string and form a clear picture. How beautiful would that be!#### The Three-Pass Approach To further talk about *goal-oriented focus*，I recently read a [paper by S. Keshav](http://ccr.sigcomm.org/online/files/p83-keshavA.pdf) titled  as *How to Read a Paper*. It featured a **Three-Pass Approach**, which I think is a very useful method to be learned and applied on a daily basis. The author said he had used this method for the last 15 years as the paper was written, though in different domain: computer science, just the persistence alone could fascinate me enough to borrow some and adapt to my own system. The key idea of this approach is to filter the papers from step to step (which obviously requires some level of expertise in a specific research topic), and adjust the level of focus accordingly. (A little bit different from previous mentioned *focus*, this one is more about locating the spot and increasing the magnification through multiple steps.) Essentially, they are both helpful in preventing us from being lost in the forest.Briefly, the **first pass** is to get a general idea of the paper. Within 5 to 10 mins we should be able to decide whether we want to discard the paper or gather more attention.  The **second pass** is to grasp the content of the paper, within 1 hour or so, we should be able to summarize the main thrust of the paper with supporting evidence; the **third pass** is to fully understand the paper by reading the details of methods and analysis, *virtually re-implement the experiment.   In my own understanding, the first step is essentially to > decide **what is new**.  Thanks to the rather standard format of scientific publications, the authors will always present their work in such a way that the most important/shining point stands out, accordingly, as a reader we can easily locate the key point of their work at specific session of the paper. If we know enough about the research field, we can then decide *whether the work is relevant, whether the work is new and whether the work is important*.  No matter which question matters, if the answer is yes, we can go for the second pass. The natural question comes after is that>"Okay, interesting! It is relevant/new/important, how is the result? "   Then we can go to the results session and read the graphs, tables or any other clearly presented results. Ignore the analysis and discussion first. Based on the basic knowledge or experiences, examine the correctness or importance of the results and roughly scan how they reached the results. If the results are truly impressive or the proposed methods are truly promising ( but in early development), we can go on with another pass with much greater care. The question to keep in mind is > "Well, well, impressive！How did they do that?"Then we get into the details in terms of how the new method is implemented to get the results. By re-implement the whole experiments (mentally), we could have a closer understanding of its innovation and its flaw. This is where *critical reading* plays a part. [Just had dinner with lab mates, continue...] With the abovementioned approaches practiced in daily reading, we may be able to spare more time to do experiments and do writing, which in my opinion should take greater weightage in engineering research.A final note: when it comes to reading a new subject, it may be very time-consuming if we have to juggle around the new terms and techniques. Take my own research as an example; I had a chemical engineering degree but now venture into biomedical engineering, which requires both biochemical and electrical knowledge. What I can bring from undergraduate seems only some laws of thermal dynamics (sad >< isn't it?). It takes time to juggle from papers to papers to figure out what are the critical issues they are trying to solve. Even if it seems that I somehow figure out the key issues, I do not really have that kind of intimate feeling with those problems. All in all, the methods as previously discussed could still be applied in this situation. Anyway, to learn new things fast and to apply the knowledge is what researchers do. 

I am an engineer, not a scientist.   